[[_Anotacions]]
tags:: #marc_teoric #Boundary_Objects #Boundary_Infraestructures #Invisible_Work #boundaries

# Star2010
# This is not a boundary object: Reflections on the origin of a concept

## Conceptes aplicats a la investigació
Aquest article de [[Star, Susan Leigh]], complementa [[Star_Griesemer1989]] i [[Bowker_Star1999]] i ens aporta definicions molt concises dels conceptes aplicats en aquesta investigació.

Definició de [[Boundary  Objects]]

> "Boundary objects are a sort of arrangement that allow different groups to work together without consensus."

Característiques dels [[Boundary  Objects]]

> "boundary objects became almost synonymous with interpretive flexibility." 

Definició de [[Treball Invisible]]

> "Invisible work, a concept I had encountered in doing feminist activist work, originally referred to unpaid housework (see Star and Strauss 1999). I went on to develop models of invisible work for computer systems development and to examine the kinds of materiality involved in museum representations.


## Anotacions [[Star2010]]

"There are three components to boundary objects as outlined in the original 1989 article. Interpretive flexibility, the structure of informatic and work process needs and arrangements, and, finally, the dynamic between illstructured and more tailored uses of the objects." ([Star 2010:603](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=3))

"boundary objects became almost synonymous with interpretive flexibility." ([Star 2010:604](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=4))

_Boundary Object com a Flexibilitat interpretativa. ([note on p.604](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=4))_

"Boundary objects are a sort of arrangement that allow different groups to work together without consensus." ([Star 2010:604](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=4))

_Definició de Boundary Object ([note on p.604](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=4))_

"The instance-based work and information needs, the ontology of the repository are well suited for conducting private investigations (either individually or in small groups), and controlling the nature of commentary or debate. It is not initially a formal sort of a work process (i.e., dropping away particulars) but rather an iterative one (that preserves particulars)." ([Star 2010:606](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=6))

"The dynamic involved in this explanation is core to the notion of boundary objects. Griesemer and I defined these as the following: The object (remember, to read this as a set of work arrangements that are at once material and processual) resides between social worlds (or communities of practice) where it is ill structured. When necessary, the object is worked on by local groups who maintain its vaguer identity as a common object, while making it more specific, 604 at Universitat Oberta de Catalunya on January 15, 2014" ([Star 2010:606](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=6))

"more tailored to local use within a social world, and therefore useful for work that is NOT interdisciplinary. Groups that are cooperating without consensus tack back-and-forth between both forms of the object." ([Star 2010:607](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=7))

"This latter dynamic has often been ignored in papers using the boundary object concept, except through the mention of it as solving a particular kind of problem. I did not mean in the 1988, 1989, or the 1999 usages that this be the final word. For example, when the movement between the two forms either scales up or becomes standardized, then boundary objects begin to move and change into infrastructure, into standards (particularly methodological standards), and into things and yet other processes, which have not yet been fully studied as such." ([Star 2010:607](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=7))

"invisible work" ([Star 2010:608](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=8))

"Invisible work, a concept I had encountered in doing feminist activist work, originally referred to unpaid housework (see Star and Strauss 1999). I went on to develop models of invisible work for computer systems development and to examine the kinds of materiality involved in museum representations." ([Star 2010:608](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=8))

_Concepte: Invisible Work.  
Procés d'imaginació de:  
Experiència gamificada  
ellaboratori.cat  
Exemples de Videojocs ([note on p.608](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=8))_

"In all of these, the gap between formal representations" ([Star 2010:608](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=8))

"publications, and unreported "back stage" work, became itself an important site of analysis. It subtly influenced the development of boundary objects in the sense of understanding local tailoring as a form of work that is invisible to the whole group and how a shared representation may be quite vague and at the same time quite useful." ([Star 2010:609](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=9))

"My colleague Karen Ruhleder and I used this puzzle to develop a list of characteristics of infrastructure (Star and Ruhleder 1996): Embeddedness. Infrastructure is sunk into, inside of, other structures, social arrangements and technologies; Transparency. Infrastructure is transparent to use, in the sense that it does not have to be reinvented each time or assembled for each task, but invisibly supports those tasks; Reach or scope. This may be either spatial or temporal—infrastructure has reach beyond a single event or one-site practice; Learned as part of membership. The taken-for-grantedness of artifacts and organizational arrangements is a sine qua non of membership in a community of practice (Lave and Wenger 1991; Star 1996). Strangers and outsiders encounter infrastructure as a target object to be learned about. New participants acquire a naturalized familiarity with its objects as they become members; Links with conventions of practice. Infrastructure both shapes and is shaped by the conventions of a community of practice, for example, the ways that cycles of day-night work are affected by and affect electrical power rates and needs. Generations of typists have learned the QWERTY keyboard; its limitations are inherited by the computer keyboard and then by the design of today's computer furniture (Becker 1988); Embodiment of standards. Modified by scope and often by conflicting conventions, infrastructure takes on transparency by plugging into other infrastructures and tools in a standardized fashion. Built on an installed base. Infrastructure does not grow de novo; it wrestles with the inertia of the installed base and inherits strengths and limitations from that base. Optical fibers run along old railroad lines; new systems are designed for backward-compatibility; and failing to account for these constraints may be fatal or distorting to new development processes. Becomes visible upon breakdown. The normally invisible quality of working infrastructure becomes visible when it breaks: the server is down, the bridge washes out, there is a power blackout. Even when there are back-up mechanisms or procedures, their existence further highlights the now-visible infrastructure. Is fixed in modular increments, not all at once or globally. Because infrastructure is big, layered, and complex, and because it means different things locally, it is never changed from above. Changes take time and negotiation and adjustment with other aspects of the systems involved." ([Star 2010:613](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=13))

"A final requirement, and perhaps most important of all, is the further development of a sophisticated analytic framework for understanding information, lived experience, and infrastructure. We live in a world where the battles and dramas between the formal and informal, the ill structured and the well structured, the standardized and the wild, are being continuously fought." ([Star 2010:616](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/WLCKG8I6?page=16))

## Conceptes Marc Teòric

### [[023. Aprenentatge Col·laboratiu]]
### [[Objectes i Infraestructures Frontera]]
### [[Boundary  Objects]]
### [[Boundary Infraestructures]]
### [[Invisible Work]]


## Conceptes Propis

### [[043. Aprenentatge Col·laboratiu]]
### [[Aprenentatge Col·laboratiu Alumnes-Professors]]
#### [[Aprenentatge Col·laboratiu entre Alumnes]]
### [[Gamificació com a Infraestructura Frontera]]
#### [[Presentació Aprenentatge Col·laboratiu]]
#### [[Videojoc, Web o APP com a Objectes Fronteres]]