* Mdnotes File Name: [[Chou2015]]
* [[_Anotacions]]

# Anotacions [[Chou2015]]  
**

"The end result is a gamification design framework called Octalysis, which derives its name from an octagonal shape with 8 Core Drives representing each side." ([Chou 2015:21](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=21))

"The 8 Core Drives of Gamification" ([Chou 2015:22](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=22))

"Core Drive 1: Epic Meaning & Calling Epic Meaning & Calling is the Core Drive that is in play when a person believes she is doing something greater than herself and/or was "chosen" to take that action. An example of this is when a player devotes a lot of her time to contribute to projects such as Wikipedia. We are familiar that people don't contribute to Wikipedia to make money, but they don't even do it to pad their resumes. People contribute to Wikipedia because they believe they are protecting humanity's knowledge - something much bigger than themselves. This also comes into play when someone has "Beginner's Luck" - an effect where people believe they have some type of gift that others don't or believe they were "lucky" to get that amazing sword at the very beginning of the game." ([Chou 2015:22](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=22))

"Core Drive 2: Development & Accomplishment Development & Accomplishment is our internal drive for making progress, developing skills, achieving mastery, and eventually overcoming challenges. The word "challenge" here is very important," ([Chou 2015:22](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=22))

"as a badge or trophy without a challenge is not meaningful at all. This is also the core drive that is the easiest to design for and, coincidently, is where most of the PBLs: points, badges, leaderboards mostly focus on." ([Chou 2015:23](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=23))

"Core Drive 3: Empowerment of Creativity & Feedback Empowerment of Creativity & Feedback is expressed when users are engaged in a creative process where they repeatedly figure new things out and try different combinations. People not only need ways to express their creativity, but they need to be able to see the results of their creativity, receive feedback, and adjust in turn. This is why playing with Legos and making art is intrinsically fun. If these techniques are properly designed and integrated to empower users to be creative, they often become Evergreen Mechanics: a game-designer no longer needs to continuously add more content to keep the activity fresh and engaging. The brain simply entertains itself." ([Chou 2015:23](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=23))

"Core Drive 4: Ownership & Possession Ownership & Possession is where users are motivated because they feel like they own or control something. When a person feels ownership over something, he innately wants to increase and improve what he owns. Besides being the major core drive for the desire to accumulate wealth, it deals with many virtual goods or virtual currencies within systems. Also, if a person spends a lot of time customizing her profile or avatar, she automatically feels more ownership towards it too. Finally, this drive is also expressed when the user feels ownership over a process, project, and/or the organization." ([Chou 2015:23](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=23))

"Core Drive 5: Social Influence & Relatedness Social Inf luence & Relatedness incorporates all the social elements that motivate people, including: mentorship, social acceptance, social feedback, companionship, and even competition and envy. When you see a friend that is amazing at some skill or owns something extraordinary, you become driven to attain the same. This is further expressed in how we naturally draw closer to people, places, or events that we can relate to. If you see a product that reminds you of your childhood, the sense of nostalgia would likely increase the odds of you buying the product" ([Chou 2015:24](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=24))

"Core Drive 6: Scarcity & Impatience Scarcity & Impatience is the Core Drive of wanting something simply because it is extremely rare, exclusive, or immediately unattainable. Many games have Appointment Dynamics or Torture Breaks within them (come back 2 hours later to get your reward) - the fact that people can't get something right now motivates them to think about it all day long. As a result, they return to the product every chance they get. This drive was well utilized by Facebook when it launched: at first it was just for Harvard students, then it opened up to a few other prestigious schools, and eventually all colleges. When it finally opened up to everyone, many people wanted to join simply because they previously couldn't get in." ([Chou 2015:24](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=24))

"Core Drive 7: Unpredictability & Curiosity Unpredictability is the Core Drive of constantly being engaged because you don't know what is going to happen next. When something does not fall into your regular pattern recognition cycles, your brain kicks into high gear and pays attention to the unexpected. This is obviously the primary Core Drive behind gambling addictions, but it is also present in every sweepstake or lottery program that" ([Chou 2015:24](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=24))

"companies run. On a lighter scale, many people watch movies or read novels because of this Core Drive. The very controversial Skinner Box experiments, where an animal irrationally presses a lever frequently because of unpredictable results, are exclusively referring to the core drive of Unpredictability & Curiosity (although many have misunderstood it as the driver behind points, badges, and leaderboard mechanics in general).²" ([Chou 2015:25](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=25))

"Core Drive 8: Loss & Avoidance This Core Drive should come as no surprise -it's the motivation to avoid something negative from happening. On a small scale, it could be to avoid losing previous work or changing one's behavior. On a larger scale, it could be to avoid admitting that everything you did up to this point was useless because you are now quitting. Also, opportunities that are fading away have a strong utilization of this Core Drive, because people feel if they didn't act immediately, they would lose the opportunity to act forever (e.g. "special offer for a limited time only!")" ([Chou 2015:25](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=25))

"In the above diagram, I applied Richard Bartle's Four Player Types (Achievers, Socializers, Explorers, and Killers) to Level III Octalysis mostly because it is the most recognized model in game design, but Level III Octalysis does not need to use Bartle's Player Types⁵ (in" ([Chou 2015:39](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=39))

"fact, Richard Bartle himself claims that his Four Player Types may not be suitable for gamification environments⁶. It could be Sales vs. Marketing Staff, Male vs. Female, Loyal Customers vs. Nonchalant Customers vs. New Customers etc. The point here is that different types of people are motivated differently, so Level III Octalysis allows the designer to understand and design for how everyone is feeling at different stages." ([Chou 2015:40](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/L7RRDSWU?page=40))