* Mdnotes File Name: [[Kapp2012]]
* [[_Anotacions]]

# Anotacions [[Kapp2012]]  
**
"Games and gamification experiences are not going away. The engagement achieved through games means that gamification is a concept that needs to be part of every learning professional's tool box. Games provide meaning and context to learners, they provide a set of boundaries within a "safe" environment to explore, think, and "try things out." Gamification is the ideal process for creating engaging learning environments. Game elements such as providing learners with permission to fail, encouragement of out-of-box thinking, and fostering a sense of control create rich learning experiences. The addition of game elements on top of traditional learning environments is a way of creating learning that aids in retention and is impactful. Learning professionals, managers, and others need to own the term "gamification" and use it to improve learning and performance within organizations." ([Kapp 2012:3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=3))

_Definició de gamificació segons Kapp. ([note on p.3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=3))_

"But we should also be cautious, as consultants and gurus treat "gamification" as a personal gold rush and try to add points, rewards, and badges to everything we do. Those things are elements of most games, and among the easier to implement, but those things alone do not a game make. The more challenging and beneficial aspects to gamification include the story, the challenge, the sense of control, decision making, and a sense of mastery—these are the elements of games that are of the most value." ([Kapp 2012:20](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=20))

_La gamificació no son punts, recompenses, etc... Hi ha narrativa, reptes, autonomia...  
([note on p.20](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=20))_

"The first chapter introduces terminology. What is a game? What is gamification?" ([Kapp 2012:25](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=25))

"Chapter Two examines the individual elements that make up a game from the rules to the aesthetics and describes how they all contribute to game play." ([Kapp 2012:25](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=25))

"In Chapter Three, the theories behind the elements of gamification are presented. The chapter covers operant conditioning and the reinforcement schedules, but only as one of many elements that make games engaging. Self-Determination Theory is described and related to games." ([Kapp 2012:25](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=25))

"Chapter Four reviews research studies describing the effectiveness of games as well as the effectiveness of specific game elements such as the use of avatars and third-person versus fi rst-person perspective." ([Kapp 2012:25](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=25))

"The fifth chapter looks at how gamification can be used for learning and problem solving." ([Kapp 2012:25](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=25))

"Chapter Six is a discussion of both the different types of game players and the different types of games that exist. Cooperation, competitive, and the self-expression aspects of games are addressed, as are the different needs of novice, expert, and master-level players." ([Kapp 2012:26](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=26))

"Chapter Seven presents a framework for developing games that teach higher order thinking skills from predicting outcomes, to synthesizing content to ultimately problem solving. The chapter also presents suggestions to help with the process of developing a game to solve a specific problem." ([Kapp 2012:26](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=26))

"In Chapter Eight methods are presented for creating game-based learning in the cognitive domains of declarative, conceptual, and procedural knowledge as well as rules-based learning" ([Kapp 2012:26](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=26))

"Chapter Fourteen provides two final examples of gamification in action and provides a couple of next step action items to further your research and study on gamification. The best way to experience gamification is first-hand" ([Kapp 2012:27](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=27))

"• Motivate Action. Motivation is a process that energizes and gives direction, purpose or meaning to behavior and actions. For individuals to be motivated, the challenge must not be too hard or too simple. Driving participation in an action or activity is a core element in gamification. • Promote Learning. Gamification can be used to promote learning because many of the elements of gamification are based on educational psychology and are techniques that designers of instruction, teachers, and professors have been using for years. Items such as assigning points to activities, presenting corrective feedback, and encouraging collaboration on projects have been the staples of many educational practitioners. The difference is that gamification provides another layer of interest and a new way weaving together those elements into an engaging game space that both motivates and educates learners. • Solve Problems. Gamification has a high potential to help solve problems. The cooperative nature of games can focus more than one individual on solving a problem. The competitive nature of games encourages many to do their best to accomplish the goal of winning." ([Kapp 2012:48](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=48))

"A serious game is an experience designed using game mechanics and game thinking to educate individuals in a specific content domain. There are serious games for leadership, sale techniques, and other business topics as well as many serious games in the realm of healthcare. These folks approach the serious game as a noble use of game mechanics and a way to engage and interact with learners." ([Kapp 2012:51](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=51))

_Definició de Serious Games. ([note on p.51](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=51))_

"Key Takeaways The key takeaways from this chapter are • A "game" is a system in which players engage in an abstract challenge, defined by rules, interactivity, and feedback, that results in a quantifiable outcome often eliciting an emotional reaction. • "Gamification" is using game-based mechanics, aesthetics, and game thinking to engage people, motivate action, promote learning, and solve problems. • Gamification is not the superficial addition of points, rewards, and badges to learning experiences. • Gamification is growing; soon a gamified service for consumer goods marketing and customer retention will become as important as Facebook, Twitter, or Amazon. • Global 2000 organizations are quickly putting gamification into place. • Gamification techniques can be applied to learning applications within any type of industry, from the military to retail to computer services to manufacturing organizations. • Serious games are created by using game-based mechanics, aesthetics, and game thinking to engage people, motivate action, promote learning, and solve problems. In other words, they are created through the gamification of traditional learning content. • Learning professionals, educators, and faculty members have many of the skills, knowledge, and abilities to take a leadership position in the gamifi cation of learning and instruction." ([Kapp 2012:59](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=59))

"Table 3.2. Theories and Their Impact on Gamification. Theory Impact on Gamification Design Social Learning Theory Model desired behavior so learner observes and internally processes the desired behavior. Cognitive Apprenticeship Setting and environment should be authentic and provide feedback and guidance on the learner's activity. Flow Continually adapt to keep the learner at constant state of interest. System adapts to the right challenge level for the leaner, not too difficult and not too easy. Operant Conditioning Provide appropriate rewards, points, and badges on a variable basis to maintain learners' interest. ARCS Theory of Motivation Grab the learner's attention, contain relevant information, and be aimed at the appropriate level of challenge so the learner is confident he or she will be successful and provide intrinsic and extrinsic motivational elements. Malone's Theory of Intrinsic Include elements of challenge, fantasy, and curiosity. cally Motivating Instruction Lepper's Instructional Include elements of learner control, challenge, curiosity, Design Principles for and contextualization Intrinsic Motivation The Taxonomy of Intrinsic Include internal and external motivational elements such as Motivations for Learning challenge, curiosity, control, fantasy, cooperation, competition, and recognition. Self-Determination Theory Provide the learner with the opportunities for autonomy, a feeling of competence, and relatedness with others. Distributed Practice Play out over time to provide spaced repetition of the content within the game. Scaffolding Start out providing a great deal of guidance and then provide less and less guidance until the learner is independently solving problems. Episodic Memory Evoke learners' emotions to more richly encode the lessons from the game in memory." ([Kapp 2012:110](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=110))

"The result was that Bartle was able to identify that people mostly liked the same types of things within the game, but opinions were divided into four subgroups. Based on his impromptu analysis, he named and classifi ed the four types into Achiever, Explorer, Socializer, and Killer." ([Kapp 2012:168](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=168))

_Bartle's Player Types  
([note on p.168](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=168))_

"Caillois' Patterns of Play" ([Kapp 2012:173](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=173))

"Agôn (Competition) This is the concept of competition when one person or group of people attempts to defeat another. In Agôn you have winners of the game who have defeated, in some way, an opponent. Caillois identified games like football, billiards, or chess as games of Agôn." ([Kapp 2012:174](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=174))

"Alea (Chance) Caillois borrowed the term Alea from the Latin name for dice as the name to describe games of chance. Alea are games in which the outcome is based on decisions that are independent of the player such as the roll of the dice or the fl ipping of a coin. In this list he included games like roulette and playing the lottery." ([Kapp 2012:174](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=174))

"Mimicary (Simulation or Role Play) This is the concept of pretending or make-believe. It is the temporary acceptance of an imaginary universe. In mimicary players assume the role of others or a role they do not currently poses. Caillois identified a child waving his arms pretending to be an airplane or imitating an adult. He also points to the spectacle of theater. The concepts of a MMORPG or a fl ight simulator are appropriate examples of mimicary." ([Kapp 2012:175](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=175))

"Ilinx (State of Dizziness and Disorder) This is the pursuit of vertigo and trying to momentarily destroy the stability of perception. In ilinx players purposefully attempt to disorient themselves through movement. He includes activities like children spinning around, mountain climbing, and skiing as games of ilinix. Riding a rollercoaster or skydiving would also fit into this category." ([Kapp 2012:175](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=175))

"• To teach problem solving, design a game where the learner: • Assumes a role • Partakes in meaningful in-game dialogue • Navigates a complex storyline • Feels challenged • Immediately is immersed in the environment • Manipulates variables within the game • Assumes a lifelike avatar with a third-person perspective • Interacts with the environment of the game • Is forced to synthesize knowledge • Enters an authentic environment • Replays the games with different outcomes • To create a game that solves a problem: • Create a shared purpose • Celebrate accomplishments • Allow individual and team efforts • Carefully consider the point system • Use a variable interface • Be transparent about shortcomings • Create a community around the game" ([Kapp 2012:200](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=200))

"• To teach concept knowledge, design a game where the learners: • Must sort and match items or content based on the attributes or traits of those items or content and not purely based on memorization. • Experience the concept they are learning about. • Experience examples and non-examples of the concept within the framework of the game. • To teach rule-based knowledge, design a game where the learners: • Experience the consequences of not following the rule. • Play a board game that outlines and provides the rules that must be learned. • Must sort and match items according to rules they are learning. • To teach procedural knowledge, design a game where the learners: • Are presented with a challenge they must overcome in following the procedure. • Practice following the procedure under difficult circumstances. • Can experience the procedure in various modes such as: demonstration, tutorial, play mode/test, and free play. • To teach soft skills, design a game where the learners: • Practice applying the guidelines in various sequences. • Make guideline-related decisions under difficult circumstances. • Can experience the impact of applying the guidelines themselves. • To teach in the affective domain, design a game where the learners: • Are immersed in the value, belief, attitude, or behavior you want to influence. • Have opportunities to achieve success within the game environment related to the affective elements you want to teach. • Hear from celebrities that are outside of the game environment or a celebrity or key player from within the game environment." ([Kapp 2012:227](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=227))

"• To teach in the psychomotor domain, design a game where the learners: • Have opportunities to practice the mental aspects of the psychomotor domain. • Have the opportunity to observe a player within the game conducting the psychomotor activity. • Are able to use a haptic device to mimic the steps and receive tactical feedback on the activity within the psychomotor dom" ([Kapp 2012:228](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B47FFWL9?page=228))