* Mdnotes File Name: [[Kapp2007]]
* [[_Anotacions]]

# Anotacions [[Kapp2007]]  
**

"Table 1.1. Levels of Gamers. Gamer 1.0 Gamer 2.0 Gamer 3.0 Gamer 4.0 Birth Years 1960-1970 1971-1980 1981-1990 1991-2000 Gaming Years 1970-1980 1981-1990 1991-2000 2001-2010 Defining games Pong Pac-Man, Myst, Zelda, SimCity, Space Invaders, Manic Manson, The Sims, Battlezone, The Secret of Halo, World Super Mario Monkey Island, of Warcraft, Brothers, Tetris Tomb Raider, America's Army, Diablo, Grand Theft EverQuest, Auto 3 Super Mario 64 Level of Extremely low Low Moderate Immersive interactivity Degree of Extremely low Very low Low to High to realism moderate extremely high Degree of Low Low Moderate High cognitive processing Thought process How do I hit this Do I move to the Where do I What variables ball to return right or the left? look to find the do I need to it to the other How do I avoid hidden pieces? balance to player? Can I or jump over that What do I need ensure that I bounce the ball obstacle? Can I to complete my keep my people off the wall to jump up to that quest? Should happy? Can I fool my oppoplatform? How I talk to that find someone to nent? What patcan I jump to person? What trade the items I tern do I need the platform? visual clues have have for a more to memorize? What changes to I encountered? valuable item? the pattern will How can I relate What would be a I encounter at the items I am fair trade? What this level? collecting to the is the trade-off goals I am trying between these to accomplish? three choices? What strategy is the most effective for this type of" ([Kapp 2007:48](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=48))

"Table 1.1. Levels of Gamers (continued). Gamer 1.0 Gamer 2.0 Gamer 3.0 Gamer 4.0 situation? How can I get a team together to defeat this boss? Player None Low Minimal High collaboration level" ([Kapp 2007:49](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=49))

"Game: How the Gamer Generation Is Reshaping Business Forever.Here are some of the traits they discovered within the gaming generation: 79 • Analytical/problem solvers • Multitasking • Competitive • Resilient • Confident • Sociable" ([Kapp 2007:62](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=62))

"Table 1.2. Gamers' and Boomers' Differing Perceptions. Source: Some material from Prensky, M. (2001). Digital game-based learning. New York: McGraw-Hill, pp. 46-47. Perception of . . . Boomer Gamer Knowledge Structured (books, memos, Unstructured (instant standard operating messaging, blog, e-mail) procedures) Organizational structure Hierarchical team-based Level playing field, equality structure Communication channels Formal (face-to-face, Informal (instant messaging, telephone calls) e-mail, text messages) Software applications Interface and information Information is the interface are separate Career advancement Patient ascent Impatient rapid ascent Learning environment Classroom E-learning Gadgets Fun to have Essential Video games Distraction, entertainment, Way of life waste of time Information processing Linear Multitasking Technology comfort level Digital immigrant Digital native" ([Kapp 2007:72](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=72))

"Gamers are self-educating" ([Kapp 2007:72](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=72))

"Building the Bridge Schools are failing gamers, as are corporate training programs. The traditional methods of passing knowledge from one person to another are inadequate for this age and these learners. Our current learning paradigms, institutions, and techniques are a hindrance to learning for gamers. For example, if a company has forty-five hundred employees to train on a new product initiative and it can train only 250 employees a month using traditional stand-up training, it will take eighteen months to train all its employees. If the life of that product knowledge is eighteen months, then by the time the last group is trained, the product information is obsolete. Organizations must find methods for faster deployment of instruction." ([Kapp 2007:73](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=73))

"Table 2.3. Types of Games and Appropriate Content. Type of Knowledge Game Definition Example Taught Declarative Game that provides Word search, free the Declarative knowledge and matching, labeling, or road runner, drag-andlabeling games question answering based drop exercises primarily on knowing facts Concept games Game that requires learner Bop the fox, race games Declarative to understand concepts and and apply those concepts concepts in limited situations Board/trivia games Game that requires Jeopardy, Who Wants to Declarative, learner to move a piece Be a Millionaire, Wheel concepts, around a board or answer of Fortune, Hollywood and rules questions when provided Squares, Monopoly, Risk some type of stimulus" ([Kapp 2007:105](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=105))

"Teaching problem solving requires three elements: teach the underlying rules and concepts that can be generally used to identify and solve problems, teach learners how to look at the interrelated nature of problems, and provide practice for learners to rehearse problem solving in a nonthreatening environment. The first element of problem solving is teaching names, jargon, facts, acronyms, concepts, rules, and procedures. A learner must have prerequisite knowledge in order to be able to solve problems. Most effective problem solving involves identifying a potential problem and decomposing the problem into subelements. A common problem among novice problem solvers is their inability to identify the problem correctly. Without fundamental knowledge of the environment in which the problem is occurring, identifying and eventually solving it becomes extremely difficult. The second element of problem solving is to understand the interrelatedness of the problem elements. Most problems are difficult to solve because of the quantity and interaction among variables. When one variable decreases, the other increases; when one process is in balance, another is out of balance; when one element is favorable, another is unfavorable. The trick is to understand how variables react with one another and consider multiple interactions and consequences prior to presenting a solution. The third element in teaching problem solving can be summed up in three words: practice, practice, practice. Errors in problem solving by novices frequently result from their unfamiliarity with the type of problem they are" ([Kapp 2007:135](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=135))

"Speaking Spanish. One innovative application of simulation technology is 3D Language: Spain.The simulation is a language-learning tool that combines aspects of video games, speech recognition technology, and proprietary language management process to place the learner into a town in Spain. The developer, David Dunlap, is a former airline pilot who wanted to create a "flight simulator" for learning a language." ([Kapp 2007:136](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=136))

"The simulation is a virtual world that the learner inhabits. The learner can wander around, interact with the townspeople, and simulate activities that he or she would participate in if actually in Spain. The idea is to immerse learners in the language and culture of a country to allow them to learn about the country and the vocabulary in the proper context and to solve common problems like ordering a drink, checking into a hotel, and asking for directions." ([Kapp 2007:137](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=137))

"Table 3.2. Simulation Types and the Knowledge They Teach. Type of Simulation Knowledge Type Definition Example Taught Physical A simulated object, piece Simulated ATC-600. Procedural: procedures of equipment, or machine. Simulated piece of operation of simulator It works and functions like machinery or even a equipment or the actual physical device. cockpit of an airplane. machinery Software Simulated software that Tutorial on how to use Procedural: emulation works and functions in MS Word or Excel. software features a fashion similar to Simulated SAP and functionality the software that it is software. teaching or emulating. Operational Simulates common Using Madden 2007 Procedural: proper simulator procedures used within to teach plays to steps for coman organization that are quarterbacks and pleting a desired software or object based wide receivers. task or contain some elements of both. Principle-based Situation in which the Simulated team Principles: simulator (social learner is placed in an meeting or simulated soft skills, skills simulator) environment in which negotiation with used when interhe or she must interact. certain steps needed acting with people Environment changes to achieve the desired based on learner's actions. outcome. Problem-solving Learner is presented with Roller Coaster Tycoon, Problem solving: simulator a new problem to solve. where the learner is confronted with a There is not a single given an environment new problem to method or process for with rules and told to solve solving the problem; accomplish a broad multiple avenues are task like building and available for solving the maintaining a profitable problem. amusement park." ([Kapp 2007:143](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=143))

"Learning at Work A gamer who waits for instructions or information while playing a video game fails. Decisive action must be taken immediately. Gamers have learned this and expect speed in answers and learning. A gamer who needs information inputs a question into a search engine and then demands accurate, up-to-date results. Gamers seek rather than wait for information. In contrast, boomers are used to receiving information in a formal, hierarchical sequence. Television, the medium of boomers, is linear, one way, and delivered in thirtyor sixty-minute chunks. Books are divided into sections, chapters, and parts. Academic classroom sessions last anywhere from one to three hours. Corporate training classes are often six hours long. Content is provided in a formal context with introductions, carefully parsed lessons, and all-encompassing summaries." ([Kapp 2007:197](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=197))

"Don't Educate, Automate With training programs becoming more and more expensive for both standup and online delivery, a faster, more efficient remedy is to replace educational requirements with automation. As boomers start to retire, their knowledge and know-how need to be automated into devices and software applications for internal employees and customers. Most automation projects focus on streamlining processes, integrating two or more existing systems, removing humans from danger, or eliminating redundant data entry. These are all good reasons for automation, but they are not enough to bridge the gap between boomers and gamers. The designers of software applications and hardware devices must team up with learning and development professionals to incorporate education into software, hardware, and other human-device interfaces and designs. The next generation of software and hardware devices must not only perform its desired function from an operational standpoint; it must also teach the humans using it how to do their job. Learning must be built into systems so humans do not have to learn what the hardware or software can do for them. They need to learn as they are using the software or device in a type of just-in-time learning. The device or software must do its job automatically and coach or teach the human when and how it wants information, feedback, or data. In manufacturing, there is a technique called "poka-yoke," which means mistake-proofing a process. The idea is to create a method that prevents the wrong activity from occurring" ([Kapp 2007:228](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=228))

"Figure 7.7. Types of Instruction and the Number of People They Instruct. Source: Author. Thousands of learners Web-Based Adaptive Learning Instruction Technology Hundreds of learners Classroom One-to-One Instruction Mentoring One learner Generic Personalized Type of Instruction One method of providing this customized instruction is to pretest the learner on the content to be presented" ([Kapp 2007:244](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=244))

"The Problem with Being the Teacher Not only are gamers' attitudes toward authority and the traditional methods of relating to a boss changing in the workplace, educational institutions are experiencing a similar phenomenon. The influx of gamers into elementary schools, high schools, and colleges is causing new expectations and requirements of boomer teachers and professors, many of whom are not prepared to make the changes necessary to keep the attention of these students. The educational tradition of lining students up at desks and lecturing to them is not effective for educating a generation that grew up playing video games and surfing the Internet. As my Gamer 4.0 son has been known to say, "School: the most boring place on earth."" ([Kapp 2007:257](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=257))

"The current model of educating students was implemented in the 1800s and does not take into account any of the technological advancement since that time, except for replacing handwritten visual aids with PowerPoint slides. There is no widespread adoption of automated whiteboards, group response systems, or other collaborative educational technology." ([Kapp 2007:258](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=258))

"My eleven-year-old son learned about World War II playing Metal of Honor games on the PlayStation 2 and Rise of Nations. He knows about the Axis powers, the Allies, and the major battles of the war. He can even describe some of the major strategies of both sides. And he has never picked up a book on World War II or even read an article on the subject." ([Kapp 2007:259](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=259))

"There are some general techniques that can help boomers teach or manage gamers: • Make rules, parameters, and goals explicit. • Allow trial and error. • Build a support and knowledge community. • Encourage research. • Assign multiple tasks to a gamer. • Make tasks meaningful." ([Kapp 2007:263](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=263))

"A number of elements in managing a team of gamers will make the team successful and productive: • Clear goals • Defined boundaries • Flexibility in the process • Impact • Accountability • Exit plan" ([Kapp 2007:273](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=273))

"Knowledge Requirements Planning KRP is based on a macrolevel model of the instructional design process. The process begins with identifying knowledge goals and cascades that information into the rest of the organization so everyone is focused on knowledge transfer and retention. KRP translates strategic knowledge goals into discrete, measurable learning objectives combined with proven feedback methods and performance analysis." ([Kapp 2007:343](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/J8PJ8S9U?page=343))